


  
Python decorator functions are functions that give some other functions additional functionality.   
  
By definition decorator function takes another function as an argument that's the function we want to bless with additional functionality.  
  
!! IMPORTANT !! In below example decorator is a nested function, but it also works NOT nested, like in second example.  
  
To properly use decorator function in “nested” example we need to define "started decorator" function (with parenthesis) to another function and pass   
our “enriched" function as argument. Then we start that function.  
  
Decorator function takes use of so called “free variables”, which are variables used by inner function, declared in outer function.  
In below example it's “text" variable.  
  

```python
import time  
  
def delay\_decorator(function):  
	text = "Delayed"  
    def wrapper\_function():  
        print(text)  
        time.sleep(2.0)  
        return function()  
    return wrapper\_function  
  
def say\_bye():  
    print("Bye")  
  
func = delay\_decorator(say\_bye)  
func()  
------------------------------  
  
"Delayed"  
# after 2s  
"Bye"
```
  
  
  
Another, and more common syntax is "@" syntax which is called "syntactic sugar" which indicates that we want to add mentioned decorator functionality to this function.  
  

```python
import time  
  
def delay\_decorator(function):  
	text = "Delayed"  
    def wrapper\_function():  
        print(text)  
        time.sleep(2.0)  
        return function()  
    return wrapper\_function # IMPORTANT - no parenthesis  
  
@delay\_decorator  
def say\_hello():  
    print("Hello")  
  
say\_hello()  
------------------------------  
  
"Delayed"  
# after 2s  
"Hello"
```
  
  
Launch sequence in decorator functions looks like that:  
  
• decorator (outer) is started and return non-started wrapper function (inner)  
 ◇ it's important not to start wrapper function when returning it by decorator. If we do that then we cannot start it later from the code, because it will be executed immediately  
• wrapper function (inner) is started and return a value  
  
It's more visible in #1 example of decorator when we assign started decorator function to variable which has non-started wrapper function inside, that is started later by “func()” syntax  
  

```python
func = delay\_decorator(say\_bye)  
func()
```
  
