


  
Link layer describes how data gets into network cable, and it's main goal is to allow higher layers access to transport media.  
  
In previous internet layer, data package has assigned IP address information. In link layer MAC addresses of hosts are assigned and data package becomes a frame.  
  
In comparison with other layers, it's the only one which is implemented as well as in software as in hardware (network card). That's why it's tasks are also divided into two parts.  
• LLC (Link Logical Control) - assigns into frames information about used internet protocol (i.e. IPv4), and it's fulfilled on computer by network card driver  
• MAC (Media Access Control) - defines media access rules   
  
  
**Frame**   
Due to different network standards (i.e. ethernet, wifi), there is no such thing as "typical" frame. But there are three main parts that can be designated.  
header  
MAC addresses (source and delivery)  
frame beginning signal  
  
  
data  
internet layer packets  
  
  
footer  
frame end signal  
check sum  
  
  
Before frame is prepared it's packet, which contains host IP, target IP, host port and target port. When MAC addresses are assigned, packet becomes a frame. But host IP cannot know target MAC address because it is known only to devices in range of one network.  
  
That's why first frame has assigned as host MAC, a host MAC address, and as target MAC, a router MAC address - because they are in one network, and this address is known to host.   
  
On router de-capsulation is performed, IP address is shown and router knows it is not the target device. Router checks in routing table that target IP address route goes through another router. Then encapsulation is performed, but now host MAC is a router MAC address, and target MAC is another router MAC. Process goes on, until frame reach server which is target from the beginning. On server response the same procedure is performed.   
  
**ARP** (Address Resolution Protocol)  
Used to getting MAC address of devices in network. It maps IP address into MAC address.  
  
When one host want to send data to another, it knows it IP address but doesn't know it's MAC address. To get it, a **broadcast frame** is prepared and send. Host MAC is assigned, but target MAC is a **broadcast MAC**- **FF.FF.FF.FF.FF.FF**. Every host that receives broadcast frame, de-capsulates the frame and checks if target IP is their IP. If not the frame is ignored, but if yes, it prepares another frame, which contains it's MAC address.  
  
After this process connection IP address = MAC address is written in ARP table of each device, for future use. By default in Windows OS, that information last for 10 minutes.  
  
To check current ARP table in command line use " **arp -a** "  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
