


  
**Network File System (NFS)**- allows to share directories and files with others over the network. System allows users and programs to access data like it would were local files. It does this by mounting all or a portion of a file system on a server. The portion of the file system that is mounted can be accessed by clients with whatever privileges are assigned to the file.  
  
How it works:  
  
First client request to mount directory from remote host on a local directory (just like physical device). The mount service will act to connect to the relevant mount daemon using **RPC** (Remote Procedure Call).   
  
Server checks if user has permission to mount that directory. If yes, it will return a **file handle** which is unique for each file and directory that is on the server.   
  
When user want to access file using NFS, an RPC call us laced to NFS Deamon on the server, and it takes parameters as:  
  
• file handle  
• name of the file  
• user's ID  
• user's group ID  
  
  
NFS protocol can be run on Windows, Linux and Mac OS.  
  
By default NFS use **root squashing** which is a privilege escalation prevention mechanism. Remote root user is assigned to "nfsnobody" user when connected, which has the least local privileges. When it's turned off it allows creation of **SUID** files.  
  
**SUID** (**S**et owner **U**ser **ID** up on execution)- means that it gives temporary permission to user to run a program/file with the file owner permissions as well as owner UID (user ID) and GID (group ID), when normally access permissions are inherited from logged. user. To give file permission for SUID letter " s " is used.  
