


  
**/bin** - binaries - contains most basic binaries (programs/aps) such as: cat, ls, chmod etc.  
  
**/boot** - contain everything that OS needs to boot on start  
  
**/dev** - devices - contain devices which are standarized to be files. Hardware and hardware drivers are placed here i.e. disc **sda**, with partition called **sda1**  
  
**/etc** - etcetera - contains all configurations for things system-wide like **apt**  
  
**/home** - every user has it's folder inside home folder. It contain personal files and documents. Sometimes home folder is mount on different partition which allows to reinstall the system without personal data loss. It also contain hidden directories (they started with dot). Like **.config** or **.local** which contain individual application settings.  
  
**/lib**  
**/lib32  
/lib64** - all three contain libraries, which are files that application use to perform various actions. They are required by binaries from **/bin** or **/sbin**.  
  
**/media**  
**/mnt** - mount - rest of mounted drives i.e. flash drive, hard drive, network drive etc. There are two directories, because **media** usually is managed by OS. When mounted manually it should be placed in **mnt**.  
  
**/opt** - optional folder - manually installed software from vendors lies here. Also all aps written by user can be stored here.  
  
**/proc** - contain sudo files that contain info about system processes and resources i.e. every process has a folder inside, which has all the information about process itself. In system monitor each process has it's own PID (Process ID), i.e. bash has 16927, so in /proc/16927 informations about bash can be found  
  
**/root** - root user home directory  
  
**/run** - it's a **tempfs** (temporary file system), which means it operates in RAM, and everything inside will be gone after reboot. Used by processes that start early at boot to store runtime informations that they use to function.  
  
**/sbin** - system binaries - binaries accessed by admin  
  
**/srv** - service directory - service data is stored there. For running servers or FTP, this folder contains data shared via that media. It's good for security, because it's in a root folder, and it's easy to mount on another drive  
  
**/sys** - it's a way to interact with a kernel. It's similar to “run” directory and it's not physically written to the disk, it's created every time system boots.  
  
**/tmp** - temporary directory - system stores temporary files in here. They are deleted after reboot. Sometimes there are stuck files in there, which cannot be deleted by system, and they need to be manually deleted by root.  
  
**/usr** - user application folder - application a particular user will use are stored here. All the stored application are considered as non-essential for basic system operations. They are stored in **/usr/bin** or **/usr/sbin** with libraries stored in **/usr/lib.** Most programs that are installed from source code are installed in **local**, but larger programs might get installed in **/usr/share**. Any source code or header files will go to **/us/src**.  
  
**/var** - variable directory - stores programs and directories that are expected to grow in size, i.e. **/var/crash** stored info about crashed apps. **/var/log** contain logs for system and application, as they constantly grow in size.  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
