


  
**/etc/passwd** stores essential information which is required during login. It's always a plain text file. Contains a list of the system's accounts, giving for each account some useful information like user ID, group ID, home directory or shell.   
  
It should have general read permission because many command utilities use it to map user IDs to user names. However write access should be only for root. If some user has been by mistake granted write access is creates a vulnerability to create another root user.  
  
 passwd file contains every user information on the system and is formated in [GECOS](Cryptography--Encryption--Hashing--Shadow_Hashes.html#GECOS), i.e.:  
   
 est:x:0:0:root:/root:/bin/bash  
1. **Username** - used when user log in, should be between 1-32 characters long.  
2. **Password** - “ x ” character indicates encrypted password stored in /etc/shadow file. To compute the hash of the password typed in CLI (command line interface), or to store/update the hash ot the password in /etc/shadow file, a **passwd** command must be used.   
3. **User ID** - each user must have assigned number; 0 is root, 0-99 are reserved for predefined accounts, 100-999 are reserved by system for administrative and system account/groups.  
4. **Group ID** - primary group ID (stored in **/etc/group** file)  
5. **User ID Info** - comment field. Allows to add extra info about the users such as user's full name, phone number etc.  
6. **Home directory** - absolute path to the path the user will be at log in. If it doesn't exist user home directory becomes “ **/** ".  
7. **Command/Shell** - absolute path of a command or shell (i.e. /bin/bash).  
  
  
