


  
Hypertext Transfer Protocol - used for web search.  
  
Basic description:  
Write in address bar i.e. http://www.google.com/page.html (**URL** address - **Uniform Resource Locator**)  
  
• firstly browser checks type of protocol - **http**  
• second the domain name - **www.google.com**  
• last, required file - **page.html**  
  
  
  
browser calls DNS server to find what server IP address is signed to searched domain name  
knowing IP address browser sends request to server to get wanted file:   
  
• REQUEST: **GET** /page.html **HTTP/1.1**  
  
  
  
if server is in possession of requested file it sends appropriate communicate, with requested file  
  
• RESPONSE: **HTTP/1.1 200 OK** /page.html  
  
  
browser reads page in HTML and shows it to user  
  
  
HTTP protocol, works default on **port 80**, and defines few simple request which client uses to communicate with www server:  
  
• **GET** - request from server specific web page  
  
REQUEST: **GET** /page.html **HTTP/1.1**  
  
RESPONSE: **HTTP/1.1 200 OK** /page.html  
  
  
if searched file was i.e.: not found, server send error code:  
  
• RESPONSE: **HTTP/1.1 404** *Not Found*  
  
  
• **POST**- used to transfer data on server i.e. logging on website  
  
REQUEST: **POST**/login.php **HTTP/1.1**  
  
A HTTP request contains few parts. First line - the verb (**method**), and a path for the server. Next section is headers, where more information about request are stored (i.e. **cookies**). Last body of the request. In case of GET request, a body is allowed but mostly will be ignored by the server. In POST, body contains data sent to server.  
  
Server sends a response which is built similar to request, but the first line contains status rather than a verb and a path.  
  
Status codes:  
• 100-199 - Information  
• 200-299 - Successes (200 OK is the "normal" response for GET)  
• 300-399 - Redirects (searched information in elsewhere)  
• 400-499 - Client errors  
  
• 400 - bad request  
• 401 - unauthorized  
• 403 - forbidden  
• 404 - not found  
• 405 - method not allowed  
• 406 - not acceptable  
• 407 - proxy authentication required  
• 408 - request timeout  
  
• 500-599 - Server errors  
  
• 500 internal server error  
• 501 - not implemented  
• 502 - bad gateway  
• 503 - service unavailable  
• 504 - gateway timeout  
• 505 - HTTP version not supported  
• 507 - insufficient storage  
• 508 - loop detected  
  
  
Response headers often tell important stuff about the web server, or give cookies that may proof useful later.  
HTTP protocol is most common one, but it sends data to server in plain text - it's not secure. If data would be intercepted, it can be easily read. That's why more and more pages which use communication with server by sending something to it, use **HTTPS** protocol which is encrypted HTTP, by default working on **port 443**.  
