


  
Models are database layout and additional metadata.  
  
Philosophy behind model is it's the single source of truth about your data. It contains essential fields and behaviors of the stored data.  
  
Following the **DRY Principle** (Don't Repeat Yourself) data model needs to be defined in one place only and other things are derived from it.  
  
In Django migrations are entirely derived form models files, and are essentially a history that can be rolled through to update database schema to match current models.  
  
Models are defined in **<APP\_NAME>/models.py**  
  
Example of a models can look like this:  
  

```python
class Question(models.Model):  
    question\_text = models.CharField(max\_length=200)  
    pub\_date = models.DateTimeField('date published')  
      
  
class Choice(models.Model):  
    votes = models.IntegerField(default = 0)  
	question = models.ForeignKey(Question, on\_delete=models.CASCADE)
```
  
  
In above example each model is represented by a class that subclasses **django.db.models.Model**, where each of them has a number of variables, each of which represents a database field in the model.  
  
Each field is represented by a **Field** class e.g. **CharField** for character field, and it tells Django what type of data field holds.  
  
Each Field instance has a name “question\_text” or “votes” in machine-friendly format. If not given another (optional like ‘date published’) it will be used as column name.  
  
Some of Field classes require arguments like **CharField** required **max\_length**, but some are optional like **IntegerField** where **default** was set to zero.  
  
There is also set a relation between classes. Using **ForeignKey** we tell Django that each Choice is related to a single Question. Django supports all common database relations (many-to-one, one-to-many, one-to-one)  
  
